Clean up Python client auth (#836)
bluesky/tiled: docs/source/how-to/authentication.md

Log in works in one of two ways, depending on the server.

1. Username and password ("OAuth2 password grant")

   ```py
   >>> client.login()
   Username: ...
   Password:
   ```

2. Via a web browser ("OAuth2 device code grant")

   ```py
   >>> client.login()
   You have 15 minutes visit this URL

   https://...

   and enter the code: XXXX-XXXX
   ```

Some Tiled servers are configured to always require login, disallowing any
anonymous access. For those, the client will prompt immediately, such as:

```py
>>> from tiled.client import from_uri
>>> client = from_uri("https://...")
Username:
```

To log out:

```py
>>> client.logout()
```

### "Remember Me"

Once you have logged in, if you then close Python and open it later, Tiled will
log you in automatically, without re-prompting for credentials. It will only
prompt you again if you log out, or when you session eventually expired.

```py
>>> from tiled.client import from_uri
>>> client = from_uri("https://...")
# Automatically logged in!

# This is a quick way to verify whether you are already logged in
>>> client.context
<Context authenticated as '...'>
```

> To opt out of this, set `remember_me=False`:
> 
> ```py
> >>> from tiled.client import from_uri
> >>> client = from_uri("https://...", remember_me=False)
> ```

Reviewer: If valid tokens already exist, they will be used.  `remember_me` gets applied to subsequent connections.  I wonder whether existing tokens should get expired/ignored in the current connection being requested when `remember_me=False` is passed?

```suggestion
To opt out of this for subsequent connections, set `remember_me=False`:

```py
>>> from tiled.client import from_uri
>>> client = from_uri("https://...", remember_me=False)
```
```

````{note}
Tiled stores OAuth2 tokens (it _never_ stores your password) in files
with properly restricted permissions under `$XDG_CACHE_DIR/tiled/tokens`.
The path used by your client can be found at:

  ```py
  >>> client.context.http_client.auth.token_directory
  ```

To customize the location of this storage, set the environment variable
`TILED_CACHE_DIR`.
````

## Noninteractive Authentication (API keys)

There are environments where logging in interactively is not possible,
such as running a batch script. For these applications, we recommend
using an API key. These can be created from the CLI:

```sh
$ tiled login
$ tiled api_key create
```

or from an interactive Python session:

```py
>>> client = from_uri("https://...")
>>> client.login()
>>> client.create_api_key()  # {"secret": ...}
```

The best way to provide an API key is to set the environment variable

> `TILED_API_KEY`. A script like this:

Reviewer: Would this be a good place to also recommend setting an appropriately "short" lifetime for the token, when it used on shared workstations?

Author: Yes, done. While I'm at it, I added support for expressions with units like `"1d"`.

```py
from tiled.client import from_uri

client = from_uri("https://....")
```

will detect that `TILED_API_KEY` is set and use that API key for
authentication with Tiled. This is equivalent to:

```py
import os
from tiled.client import from_uri

client = from_uri("https://....", api_key=os.environ["TILED_API_KEY"])
```

Avoid typing the API key in to the code:

```py
from_uri("https://...", api_key="secret!")  # DON'T
```

as it is easy to accidentally share or leak.

## Custom Applications

Custom applications, such as a graphical interfaces that wrap Tiled,
may not be able to use Tiled commandline-based prompts. They may
provide their own mechanism for collection credentials
(for password grants) or launching a browser and waiting for the
user to authorize a session (for device code grants).

Custom applications should avoid using the convenience functions

> `tiled.client.construtors.from_uri` and
> `tiled.client.construtors.from_profile`. Instead, follow this pattern:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`tiled.client.constructors.from_uri` and
`tiled.client.constructors.from_profile`. Instead, follow this pattern:
```

in units of years `y`, days `d`, hours `h`, minutes `m`, or seconds `s`.

The best way to provide an API key is to set the environment variable
`TILED_API_KEY`. A script like this:

```py
from tiled.client import from_uri

client = from_uri("https://....")
```

will detect that `TILED_API_KEY` is set and use that API key for
authentication with Tiled. This is equivalent to:

```py
import os
from tiled.client import from_uri

client = from_uri("https://....", api_key=os.environ["TILED_API_KEY"])
```

Avoid typing the API key in to the code:

```py
from_uri("https://...", api_key="secret!")  # DON'T
```

as it is easy to accidentally share or leak.

## Custom Applications

Custom applications, such as a graphical interfaces that wrap Tiled,
may not be able to use Tiled commandline-based prompts. They may
provide their own mechanism for collection credentials
(for password grants) or launching a browser and waiting for the
user to authorize a session (for device code grants).

Custom applications should avoid using the convenience functions
`tiled.client.constructors.from_uri` and
`tiled.client.constructors.from_profile`. Instead, follow this pattern:

> 

Reviewer 2: This might be a good place to link: https://github.com/bluesky/tiled/blob/799f7ba163a9424a44a366e232fc995854d12470/tiled/client/context.py#L55-L95

as a sensible default.
